# What is an Architectural Runway 


Architectural Runway The Architectural Runway consists of the existing code, components, and technical infrastructure needed to implement near-term features without excessive redesign and delay. 

Architectural Runway supports the continuous flow of value through the Continuous Delivery Pipeline, providing the necessary technical foundation for developing business initiatives and implementing new Features and/or Capabilities.  

The architectural runway is one of the primary tools used to implement the Framework’s Agile Architecture strategy. Since the development of new features and capabilities consumes the architectural runway, continual investment must be made to extend it by implementing Enablers. Some enablers address shortcomings with the current Solution, such as improving the performance or User Experience. Others provide foundational capabilities that will be used to support future functionality. Details Agile development avoids Big Design Up-front (BDUF) and replaces it with a simple belief that “the best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams [3].” This yields the practice of emergent design—the process of discovering and extending the architecture only as necessary to implement and validate the next increment of functionality. However, organizations must respond simultaneously to new business challenges with larger-scale architectural initiatives that require some intentionality and planning. As a result, emergent design alone cannot handle the complexity of large-scale system development, and the following problems start to occur: Excessive redesign and delays reduce velocity Systems become difficult to integrate, validate, and maintain Decline of system qualities, known as Nonfunctional Requirements (NFRs) Reduced collaboration and synchronization among teams Low reuse of common components and redundancy of solution elements All of these problems can result in poor solution performance, bad economics, and slower time-to-market. Intentional Architecture Supports the Bigger Picture It simply isn’t possible for all teams to anticipate changes that may occur well outside their environment. Nor can individual teams fully understand the entire system and avoid producing redundant and/or conflicting designs and implementations. Simply put, no one team in a larger Enterprise can see the whole picture or reasonably anticipate all the changes headed their way—many of which arise outside their local control. For this reason, teams need some intentional architecture—a set of purposeful, planned architectural guidelines that enhance solution design, performance, and usability—and direction for cross-team design while syncing implementation. Applied together, intentional architecture and emergent design allow Agile Release Trains (ARTs) to create and maintain large-scale solutions. Emergent design enables fast, local control so that teams can react appropriately to changing requirements without excessive attempts to future-proof the system. Intentional architecture provides the guidance needed to ensure that the whole system has conceptual integrity and is fit for its purpose. Achieving the right balance of emergent design and intentional architecture is the key to developing large-scale systems effectively. Enable Continuous Delivery and Release on Demand with Architecture Architects play a critical role in designing systems that can provide a continuous flow of value to the user.  Enterprise Architects define enablers at the Portfolio Level, while System and Solution Architects/Engineering typically define them at the Program and Large Solution levels. The architects who define the enablers help steer them through the Kanban systems, providing the guidance needed to analyze, estimate, and implement them. This support ensures that the affected elements—subsystems, components, functions, protocols, internal system functions—have the architecture necessary to support the near-term features and capabilities on the Roadmap. To avoid the BDUF approach, the enterprise commits to implementing architecture incrementally. This means that enabler epics must be split into enabler features and/or capabilities, which are ultimately implemented by individual ARTs. Each enabler feature must be completed within a Program Increment (PI), ensuring that the system always runs—meaning it’s potentially deployable, even during its development. Architecture is a key enabler of the Continuous Delivery Pipeline (CDP) and the architecture runway is concerned with building the CDP. An effective CDP provides teams immediate quality feedback offered through Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment. It also feeds Continuous Exploration and Release on Demand with direct user feedback and validated learning (see Lean UX. The result is a higher-quality product that is adaptable and fit for purpose.

References : https://www.scaledagileframework.com/architectural-runway/
